---
title: Cosma CLI v2-beta-1
date: 2022-11-16
draft: false
github: "https://github.com/graphlab-fr/cosma-cli/releases/tag/2.0-beta-1"
zenodo: "https://zenodo.org/record/5920616"
---

This is the first beta for Cosma CLI v2. It includes three major changes:

1. Cosma has been imbued with the spirit of another of our projects, the [Otletosphere](https://hyperotlet.huma-num.fr/otletosphere/): in addition to Markdown text files, cosmoscopes can now be created from tabular data, and we've added new graphical options such as having fixed-size nodes, and using images as thumbnails/portraits on nodes and records.
2. Projects! Cosma is now able to deal with multiple data sources. You can manage each project locally or store project configurations in a centralized user data directory.
3. Chronological mode is a new time-based display filter. Use the slider to make nodes appear and disappear depending on their `begin` and `end` metadata. This is a work-in-progress.

## Additions

- Manage multiple configurations (global and local)
- Use alternative syntax for links
- Include user-defined metadata in batch creation
- Display user-defined metadata in records in the cosmoscope
- Exclude certain records when generating the cosmoscope, based on types, keywords and user-defined metadata
- Display nodes in chronological mode
- Embed images in the cosmoscope (in base64). Supported formats: JPG, PNG
- Use an image as default thumbnail for a record type
- Use an image as thumbnail for a record
- Define an outline color for node types
- Choose between fixed size nodes and nodes proportional to their degree

## Improvements

- Links in bibliography are now clickable
- Messages displayed at command execution are more informative
- The error and warning report is more informative
- Keywords at the top of cards in the cosmoscope no longer overflow the layout
- Cosma now reads directories recursively (issue [#4](https://github.com/graphlab-fr/cosma/issues/4))

## Fixed bugs

- Link/backlink context tooltips now correctly highlight the target record (issue [#23](https://github.com/graphlab-fr/cosma/issues/23))
- Spaces in file names generated by Cosma are correctly replaced by dashes

## Known bugs

- Backlink context tooltips may fail to render citations properly